you can love your child with addiction
you can't get them to quit you can love
your mother you can support your mother
you can't keep her from losing it you do
not control that it's [ __ ] arrogant
to think that the depth of human
arrogance is to think that you can
control another human being let alone
your own life
okay so there's a question who has
there's someone who has a question about
the holiday season so the holiday season
is here it's extremely stressful my
family doesn't do a traditional
Christmas celebration this puts me at
odds with all of my extended family I'm
looking for a way to sort of bridge the
gap and make any gathering at the very
least tolerable what are some steps to
take or a good way to show family
members that we respect their traditions
but we don't wish to follow them so I
think that's a great question I think
that's the kind of thing that I can't
sort of answer open-ended so I think if
this person wants to come on stream we
can talk about how to manage the
holidays and the difficulties of
managing the holidays so the holidays
are a really tough time for a lot of my
patients because like [ __ ] just gets
stirred up like trauma and like
expectations and disappointment and
shame and all that kind of stuff is
front and center so I think that's a
great thing to come onto stream and talk
about if the person who posted that
question is willing to talk okay
so I have another there's another
question here which I think is really
good but is also kind of off topic and
something that I can answer yeah so many
good questions okay we still have to
teach you guys how to meditate today
right don't get hammered through the
holidays not really a good
recommendation okay let me ask you guys
do you guys want sort of like I'll ask
you do you want to ask you want me to
grab okay so here's the next question
so you guys tell me do you want me to
answer this question or do you guys want
me to move on to something else
[Music]
because that's also pretty in-depth
question okay I'm a bit in over my head
I have a younger sister who was born
with cerebral palsy she's in her mid-20s
now in 2015 she was diagnosed with a
rare blood cancer she's had two
bone-marrow transplants the treatments
she's getting don't seem to be working
I've always prepared for the invention
that once my parents passed on she would
come live with me I don't think this
will be the case I don't know how to be
supportive for my mother who is handling
the daily doctors and treatments I don't
know how to prepare myself for her
potential passing and what what I would
need to do for my mother to keep her
from well just losing it she shrugs my
suggestions for counseling for her with
I've survived this long without it okay
this is a good question so this question
highlights a lot of principles that it
is very important that you live your
life by that's why I love this question
there's a lot here okay the first
question which I'm going to dodge for
today even though this is about
spirituality is how do we understand why
some people are born with cerebral palsy
and like get rare blood cancers like how
the [ __ ] does that work how do we live a
life and which terrible things happen to
people that we love that is a very
important question one that definitely
needs to be discussed but is worthy of
an entire stream so we'll talk about
that one day I've always prepared for
the eventualities that once my parents
passed on she would come live with me so
now we get to the first problem that the
mind creates which is expectations so
the first question is where did you get
the idea
and how attached are you to this idea
that this person is going to come live
with you
right so we tend to have a moral compass
which tells us that we should do certain
things but oftentimes that moral compass
gets clouded by emotion so there's just
sort of this idea that when parents pass
this person is gonna come live with me
because I'm family and I'm the only one
that can take care of her so I'd stop by
really I'd start by really stopping and
really examining that statement so it
can feel like an [ __ ] to say that my
sister with cerebral palsy is not gonna
come live with me you can feel like
you're letting her down but for someone
who has cerebral palsy I genuinely
question whether this person is going to
get the best care that they can if they
come live with you because a lot of
people their homes are not really
designed to live and support someone
with special needs the best that they
can right we have to really think about
that like just because you feel guilty
for having not having her come live with
you if you feel like you're abandoning
her if this person comes and lives with
you doesn't actually mean that you are
the best person to take care of her this
is the first thing to understand what
you should think about is what it what
is in the best interests of your sister
and to recognize that it is possible
that your guilt is making you
automatically assume that the best thing
for your sister is to come and live with
you and then you feel guilty because
you're like oh my god like if this
person comes to live with me that's
gonna be such a [ __ ] show I have to do
this I have to do this I have to do this
I don't know if I'm gonna be able to
handle it but I have to it's the first
thing I ask you is really do you have to
is that really the best thing for your
sister one of the most difficult things
to realize is that you are not the best
person to help out people that you love
one of the most important things and I
understand this because I work with
people with [ __ ] addictions and it
takes so much time for me to get through
to parents and tell them that love is
not enough you can love your child as
much as you want to that
doesn't mean that you can help them
blows their [ __ ] mind
the parents who end up okay are the ones
that realize that love is not enough
that in our life circumstances are
important resources are important
choices are important the choices of the
ones that you love are important parents
can bend over backwards to try to love a
child with addiction as much as they
want to doesn't mean it's gonna fix the
child that the child or the person with
addiction has to take responsibility for
their actions has to take responsibility
for their their life has to take
responsibility for their treatment love
isn't enough you can't you can't love
someone in your family to wellness I'm
sorry
you just can't I know I try I tried when
my kid get kid get sick I try to bend
over backwards to make give them every
single comfort they can and sometimes
that's actually bad for them because if
I say up all night patting them and then
I'm a zombie the next day and I'm
short-tempered and I don't make them
like food and the food burns and it's
not delicious like taking care of
yourself is sometimes really important
because then you can better take care of
other people there's a lot of research
on physician burnout you know how good
what what the quality of medicine that a
physician who's burnt out practices they
practice bad medicine they make mistakes
they're not compassionate if they burn
themselves out take care of yourself
first then you can take care of other
people right simplest analogy that I
tell people is that if you're trying to
save someone from drowning it's really
easy if you're standing in the shallow
end like if there's a three-year-old
who's like struggling for breath and
you're in the three-foot pool and you
just stand up and you hold them they're
not gonna drown they're never gonna
drown you can just hold them it's easy
no effort if you're in the deep end
then it's tough take care of yourself
first establish a solid foundation first
right
why can I help you guys because I take
care of my [ __ ] at home it gives me
strength
I'm calm thankfully I have a wonderful
wife who's taking care of my children
right now that I can be here on a Sunday
but my [ __ ] is taken care of at home she
helps me she supports me I'm supported I
have my feet on the ground five my feet
on the ground I can help you the first
thing is where did you get that
expectation and understand that a lot of
our suffering comes from the
expectations which we automatically make
for ourselves and that those
expectations and standards that we set
up for ourselves are based on our
emotions in the moment guilt guilt
doesn't make you think right shame
doesn't make you think right fear
doesn't make you think right everyone
knows this yet we do not question the
conclusions that come out of these
emotions so the first is question that
conclusion the first is is your sister
actually better off with you I don't
know how to be supportive for my mother
who is handling the daily doctors and
treatments
I don't okay so the first important
question point to understand is just
because you don't see the effect of your
support and love doesn't mean it doesn't
have an effect right and so this person
goes on to say I don't know how to
prepare myself for her potential passing
and what I would need to do for my
mother to keep her from well just losing
it she shrugs off my suggestions for
counseling with I've survived this long
without it so this person thinks I am
making a suggestion the suggestion is
being rejected therefore I'm not able to
help my mother do you guys see that
logical chain make sense right what does
a psychiatrist do what does a therapist
do do we make suggestions no good ones
usually don't I make a fair amount of
number of suggestions but a lot of times
we don't make suggestions what do we do
how do we help people right when someone
comes in and says I'm depressed because
I don't feel good about myself if I tell
them hey you should just go to gym
change your dye
get yourself a stool transplant from a
nun depressed rat and you'll be good
doesn't work right doesn't work what do
we do what is this person doing so this
person is so remember that in order to
help someone they don't necessarily need
to take your help I think one of the
most important things that you can offer
another human being is the knowledge
that you care about them that you love
them and that you support them they just
have to know that their I even have to
take your help so one of the most
important things that I think people
underestimate is like you don't think
you're helping someone because they
don't seem to be changing but you don't
realize how much of an effect it has on
that person I don't know if you guys
have read like manifestos of school
shooters but those people are like
utterly alone utterly alone they have no
one right and so when you offer when you
demonstrate concern for someone you love
and you say hey maybe you should get
counseling you don't realize that that
person feels less alone because you're
caring about them you're demonstrate is
demonstrating you're caring and so the
other interesting thing is the mother
hasn't lost it yet right think about
this for a second this is a mother who
has a child who has cerebral palsy
multiple blood cancers we're treatments
aren't working their life is a is
[ __ ] his heart as hard as you can
possibly imagine and then harder and the
mother hasn't lost it yet why why I
think it's because this person is
helping because they're saying hey I see
you I see that you're struggling and I
want to help how can I help right that's
what they're doing that's the signal
even if they're turning down the help
it's just enough to know that you're not
utterly long and I don't know if you
guys have ever been suicidal I imagine
there's a fair number of people in chat
who have been suicidal but like when
you're suicidal you just feel really
really alone right and if there's one
person who can make you feel not alone
that helps so much
and so I think this person is doing a
better job of taking care of their
mother than they realize
right now practically you can ask so I
would say that like practically you're
doing a better job than you think and
also I would consider using this
phrasing which is I know that this is
like dealing with my sister is really
hard and that you must be going through
a lot how can I best support you instead
of suggesting something ask them ask an
open-ended question of how you can help
so a lot of times when you try to help
someone you give them suggestions you
say hey man I think you have a drinking
problem you need to go to [ __ ] rehab
and they say no [ __ ] you
right say hey man you should go to a you
have a [ __ ] drinking problem and they
say no hey man you're overweight you
should get your ass to the gym and stop
eating Cheetos and they say no so try
this hey I see you're really struggling
right now this is stressful for me and
I'm not even the primary caretaker of my
sister what can I do to support you how
can I help how are you handling it and
let them run the show right instead of
just making suggestions
see what they need and then ask them
questions instead of suggesting
counseling have you thought about
getting counseling and then if they ask
that if they say I've survived this long
without it have you ever been in
counseling what do you think counseling
is about do you think it could be
helpful
what does counselling do for people
right you can ask these kinds of
questions start exploring things with
them see how they feel ask them how they
need support and now the last part which
is possibly the hardest I don't know how
to prepare myself for her potential
passing and what I would need to do for
my mother to keep her from well just
losing it okay now we come to the
biggest source of suffering in the world
which is your [ __ ] arrogance that you
can control things for another human
being that you can actually control your
life that you can control outcomes when
I apply for a job and I really want that
job there's a part of me that says that
if I work hard enough I can get that job
incorrect you do not control whether you
get the job you just don't control it
you can work as hard as you [ __ ] want
you not saying you shouldn't work hard
what I'm saying is be careful about the
expectation you create in your mind
about the result you can love your child
with addiction you can't get them to
quit you can love your mother you can
support your mother you can't keep her
from losing it you do not control that
it's [ __ ] arrogant to think that the
depth of human arrogance is to think
that you can control another human being
let alone your own life as a human being
you're entitled to your actions not the
fruits of your actions I'm entitled to
ask a girl out I'm not entitled to her
saying yes I'm entitled to apply for a
job I'm not entitled to get it I'm I'm
entitled to my actions the more you
recognize that the more your life will
[ __ ] turn around because people get
so caught up in the outcomes of their
actions when that girl says no I get
devastated I get [ __ ] depressed I
feel ashamed I don't leave the house why
because you felt like you were in
control if I was different she would
have said yes if I was more studly she
would have said yes if I was a [ __ ]
Chad she would have said yes right if I
was dot dot dot dot dot she would have
said yes I'm not good enough because she
did not say yes that's the [ __ ]
problem devote yourself to your actions
you don't control whether she says yes
you don't control whether your mother
takes your help you don't control
whether your mother loses it you don't
control whether your loved one gets
recovery from
diction or not you do not control that
all you control is what you do you get
to control showing up that's all you get
you get to show up today I showed up
today you guys showed up that's what you
control Joro
this morning showed up right he doesn't
control whether he finds a job he
controls whether he takes a [ __ ] walk
boolie us a couple weeks ago controls
whether he cleans his room it's all he
controls he doesn't control the number
of people who log on to his twitch
doesn't control anything all you control
is your actions the problem is that
people get so caught up in the
consequences of their actions they get
so pissed off and disappointed and a
shame that the world didn't turn out the
way they want and they don't even
[ __ ] understand you don't have you
don't have control over that you don't
you don't get to do that you don't get
to decide whether you were born with
cerebral palsy you don't get to decide
whether you were born with lupus you
don't get to decide any of that you have
so little control in life and the more
that you understand that the better your
life will go because then you focus on
the action right you stop worrying about
the result you focus on the action I
didn't apply for a job oh that means I'm
not good enough [ __ ] it
I'm ashamed I'm not good enough what's
the point in applying that's what
happens when you focus on the result if
you don't focus on there's a line I was
never entitled the job to begin with I
applied I didn't get it what am I gonna
do today I'm gonna apply for another
[ __ ] job
that's how you change your life so for
this person I don't know how
her potential passing and what I would
need to do for my mother okay so this is
important I don't know how to prepare
myself for her potential passing that is
what you control is to prepare yourself
for the eventualities that's what you
control and what I would need to do for
my mother to keep her from well just
losing it you cannot do that you cannot
do that can't do that at all whether
your mother loses it or doesn't lose it
not your choice how you prepare for the
passing that is your choice and so if
you feel like you're not moving forward
in life if you're stuck do you feel like
a piece of [ __ ] I don't think you
understand you don't control you're so
[ __ ] arrogant you don't control at
nearly as much as you want you just
control yourself that's all you are all
you have a Jinsu over right if you're
playing a game you don't control the
NPC's stupid we don't assume that you
don't get to control the NPC you don't
get to control
what's inside the loot box you control
the PC right you control your character
when you play dota or an MMO you just
control your guy right so how do you
climb MMR in team games you you climb
MMR like if you're playing overwatch or
Lal or whatever how do you climb MMR you
just rage and get your teammates give
you MMR no but everyone loves to do it
right you love to rage at your teammates
does it make you better at the game
[ __ ] mill you want to get better
think about what you did wrong think
about yourself think about what you
control you don't control them you
control yourself you can influence them
right you can be a toxic [ __ ]
in-game you can be as toxic as you want
to that'll influence them but whether
you respond to toxicity with toxicity
that's yours to control whether you get
better at the game whether you climb MMR
depends on your actions that's all you
get
you can play the best game of overwatch
or dota or Lal or whatever you play pvp
and an MMO and you don't actually get to
decide whether you win or lose because
when you queue up your with four to five
randos right and depending on the randos
on your team in the randos on their team
like you're just 10% of the game that's
all you are and that's how it is with
life - and you focus on that 10% your
life will start moving in the right
direction